---
title: '1. Review Microsoft Defender'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 04: Secure your workloads'
---

# Task 01 - Review Microsoft Defender

## Introduction

Tailspin Toys is migrating their on-premises SQL Server database to Azure SQL Managed Instance. In this task, you will review some security information in Microsoft Defender, such as the Secure Score, security alerts, and recommendations. 

## Description

In this task, you will review some security information in Microsoft Defender, such as the Secure Score, security alerts, and recommendations.

The key tasks are as follows:
1. Review the Microsoft Defender Secure Score.
2. Review the security alerts in Microsoft Defender.
3. Review Microsoft Defender Recommendations

## Success Criteria

* Successfully reviewed Defender Secure Score, alerts, and recommendations.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. Sign in to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com). Ensure that you're using a subscription associated with the same resources you created during the lab set up.

2. In the **Search resources, services, and docs** box at the top of the portal, search for **Microsoft Defender for Cloud**, then select the **Microsoft Defender for Cloud** service.

3. On the **Microsoft Defender for Cloud \| Overview** blade, in the **Security posture** tile, review your **Secure Score**.

    {: .highlight }
    > Selecting the secure score chart lets you determine how the value has been calculated.

4. Navigate back to the **Microsoft Defender for Cloud \| Overview** blade, under the **General** section, select **Security alerts**.

    {: .highlight }
    > In this window, you can view and analyze all Microsoft Defender security alerts fired.

5. Navigate back to the **Microsoft Defender for Cloud \| Overview** blade, under the **General** section, select **Recommendations**.

    {: .highlight }
    > In this window, you can view all Microsoft Defender recommendations and your progress in implementing such recommendations.

</details>
