---
title: '3. Enable Microsoft Defender for Azure SQL Database'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Exercise 04: Secure your workloads'
---

# Task 03 - Enable Microsoft Defender for Azure SQL Database

## Introduction

Tailspin Toys is migrating their on-premises SQL Server database to Azure SQL Managed Instance. In this task, you will learn how to monitor and improve the security posture of your database using Microsoft Defender for SQL. You will also apply some of the suggested actions to enhance the security of your database and reduce their attack surface.

## Description

In this task, you will learn how to monitor and improve the security posture of your database using Microsoft Defender for SQL. You will also apply some of the suggested actions to enhance the security of your database and reduce their attack surface.

The key tasks are as follows:
1. Enabled Microsoft Defender for SQL.

## Success Criteria

* Successfully enabled Microsoft Defender for SQL.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. Sign in to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com). Ensure that you're using a subscription associated with the same resources you created during the lab set up.

    {: .highlight }
    > If you're using Azure Gov, sign in to the [Azure Gov Portal](https://portal.azure.us).

2. In the **Search resources, services, and docs** box at the top of the portal, search for **Microsoft Defender for Cloud**, then select the **Microsoft Defender for Cloud** service.

3. In the **Management** section, select **Environment settings**.

4. Select the relevant subscription.

5. On the **Defender plans** page, locate the **Databases** plan and select **Select types**.

6. Toggle the `SQL servers on machines` plan or the `Azure SQL Databases` plan to On, depending on your needs.

7. Select **Continue** and then **Save**.

</details>
