---
title: '5. Deploy and configure Azure Firewall'
layout: default
nav_order: 5
parent: 'Exercise 04: Secure your workloads'
---

# Task 05 - Deploy and configure Azure Firewall

## Introduction

Tailspin Toys is migrating their on-premises SQL Server database to Azure SQL Managed Instance. In this task, you will implement an Azure Firewall to protect network traffic.

## Description

In this task, you will implement an Azure Firewall to protect network traffic.

The key tasks are as follows:
1. Test network traffic from the Virtual Machine to the Internet. You should have access to bing.com.
2. Deploy Azure Firewall.
3. Configure rules to block access to bing.com.
4. Test network traffic from the Virtual Machine to the Internet. Access to bing.com is now blocked.

## Success Criteria

* Azure Firewall is deployed and fully worked as expected.

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1. Sign-in to the Azure portal **`https://portal.azure.com/`**.

2. Connect to the **tailspin-webapp-vm** and using **Microsoft Edge** navigate to **https://www.bing.com**. You should be able to access **Microsoft Bing**.

3. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box at the top of the Azure portal page, type **tailspin-hub-vnet** and press the **Enter** key.

4. Under **Settings**, select **Subnets**.

5. Select **+Subnet** and add a subnet with the name **AzureFirewallSubnet** and the range **10.1.100.0/24**

6. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box at the top of the Azure portal page, type **Firewalls** and press the **Enter** key.

7. On the **Firewalls** blade, select **+ Create**.

8. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create a firewall** blade, specify the following settings (leave others with their default values):

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Resource group|**YOUR RESOURCE GROUP**|
   |Name|**Hub-fw**|
   |Region|Your Region|
   |Firewall SKU|**Standard**|
   |Firewall management|**Use a Firewall Policy to manage this firewall**|
   |Firewall policy|Select **Add new** <br />Name: **hub-fw-pol**<br />Region: **your region**|
   |Choose a virtual network|select the **Use existing** option and, in the drop-down list, select **tailspin-hub-vnet**|
   |Public IP address|clck **Add new** and type the name **Hub-fw-PIP** and select **OK**|

9. Select **Review + create** and then select **Create**. 

    >**Note**: Wait for the deployment to complete. This should take about 5 minutes. 

10. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box at the top of the Azure portal page, type **Resource groups** and press the **Enter** key.

11. On the **Resource groups** blade, in the list of resource group, select **YOUR RESOURCE GROUP** entry.

12. In the list of resources, select the entry representing the **Hub-fw** firewall.

13. On the **Hub-fw** blade, identify the **Private IP** address that was assigned to the firewall.

14. In the Azure portal, in the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box at the top of the Azure portal page, type **Route tables** and press the **Enter** key.

15. On the **Route tables** blade, click **+ Create**.

16. On the **Create route table** blade, specify the following settings:

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Resource group|**YOUR RESOURCE GROUP**|
   |Region| **Your Region**|
   |Name|**Firewall-route**|

17. Click **Review + create**, then click **Create**, and wait for the provisioning to complete. 

18. On the **Route tables** blade, click **Refresh**, and, in the list of route tables, click the **Firewall-route** entry.

19. On the **Firewall-route** blade, in the **Settings** section, click **Subnets** and then, on the **Firewall-route \| Subnets** blade, click **+ Associate**.

20. On the **Associate subnet** blade, specify the following settings:

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Virtual network|**tailspin-spoke-vnet**|
   |Subnet|**default**|

    >**Note**: Ensure the **default** subnet is selected for this route, otherwise the firewall won't work correctly.

21. Click **OK** to associate the firewall to the virtual network subnet. 

22. Back on the **Firewall-route** blade, in the **Settings** section, click **Routes** and then click **+ Add**. 

23. On the **Add route** blade, specify the following settings:  

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Route name|**FW-DG**|
   |Destination type|**IP Address**|
   |Destination IP addresses/CIDR ranges|**0.0.0.0/0**
   |Next hop type|**Virtual appliance**|
   |Next hop address|the private IP address of the firewall that you identified in the previous when creating the Azure Firewall|

    >**Note**: Azure Firewall is actually a managed service, but virtual appliance works in this situation.
	
24.  Click **Add** to add the route. 

25. Connect to the **tailspin-webapp-vm** and using **Microsoft Edge** navigate to **https://www.bing.com**. You should NOT be able to access **Microsoft Bing**.

26. In the Azure portal, navigate back to the **Hub-fw** firewall.

27. On the **Hub-fw** blade, in the **Firewall policy** section, select **hub-fw-pol**.

28. On the **hub-fw-pol** Firewall Policy blade, select **Application rules**, and then click **+ Add a rule collection**.

29. On the **Add a rule collection** blade, specify the following settings (leave others with their default values):

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |Name|**App-Coll01**|
   |Priority|**200**|
   |Action|**Allow**|

30. On the **Rules** Section, create a new entry with the following settings (leave others with their default values):

   |Setting|Value|
   |---|---|
   |name|**AllowBing**|
   |Source type|**IP Address**|
   |Source|**10.2.0.0/24**|
   |Protocol port|**http:80, https:443**|
   |Target FQDNS|**www.bing.com**|

31. Click **Add** to add the Target FQDNs-based application rule.

32. Connect to the **tailspin-webapp-vm** and using **Microsoft Edge** navigate to **https://www.bing.com**. You should be able to access **Microsoft Bing**.

</details>